If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
This familiar saying might be true with human promises, but is certainly not true with
promises from Jehovah.
They always come true.
Just before his death, at the age of 110, Joshua reminded the Israelites why Jehovah's
promises can always be trusted.
He said, not one word, out of all the good promises that Jehovah your God has spoken
to you has failed.
They have all come true for you.
Among all of Jehovah's good promises are the heartwarming restoration promises given
to the Jews returning from exile in Babylon.
Since the land of Judah had laid in desolate for 70 years, the Jews wouldn't have expected
brand new homes waiting for them to occupy or fields ready for them to harvest.
There would be much work for them to do once they arrived.
There were many unknowns about their future, which could have caused some to worry or be
anxious.
Some family heads might have wondered, where will we live?
How will I feed my family and keep them safe?
Jehovah calmed their hearts, with the reassuring promises recorded at Isaiah 65, 21 and 22.
Let's read these together at Isaiah 65, 21 and 22.
And there it reads, they will build houses and live in them, and they will plant vineyards
and eat their fruitage.
They will not build for someone else to inhabit, nor will they plant for others to eat.
For the days of my people will be like the days of a tree, and the work of their hands
my chosen ones will enjoy to the full.
These promises must have strengthened the Jews.
Jehovah didn't say that they might build and live in their own homes, and they might enjoy
the fruitage from their vineyards.
No, he told his precious chosen ones that they will enjoy these promises to the full.
Even though they hadn't been told every detail, and there were many unknowns regarding
their future, they knew their God Jehovah.
They knew that his promises were for their good, and that they would all come true.
And those promises did come true.
Knowing that God fulfilled all of his promises in the past, strengthens our trust and confidence
that all of his promises for the future, like the ones that we read in Isaiah 65, will
all come true for our everlasting good.
What a joy it will be to build and then live in our own home, never having to worry that
we will lose it because of a natural disaster or economic collapse.
Sadly though, many of our brothers and sisters today do suffer the harsh realities of living
in this old system of things.
For example, a sister in Poland named Gabriella experienced great loss when her home was nearly
destroyed by a flood.
How did she maintain her joy?
Notice what she said.
I don't want to talk about what I lost.
Those are just material things.
Rather, I want to tell you how much I gained.
This experience reassured me that being a part of the Christian congregation is a unique
privilege as well as a source of joy and happiness.
So although she went through some very difficult times, what did she gain?
Joy and happiness.
What about a single sister from Puerto Rico named Onel?
She endured a very difficult test back in 2017 when Hurricane Maria destroyed her home.
As a result of that storm, she lost her job.
Notice what she recalled.
During those difficult days, I felt anxious, but I learned to trust in Jehovah through prayer
and not let anxiety paralyze me.
She also said, following the direction of the organization helped me to remain calm.
I saw Jehovah's hand in the spiritual encouragement I received as well as the material assistance provided
by the Brotherhood.
Jehovah gave me much more than I could even ask for, and my faith was greatly strengthened.
So she received assistance from Jehovah, from his organization, and she was greatly strengthened.
What about you?
Are you suffering some sort of storm in your life?
Perhaps from a natural disaster or maybe a figurative one caused by a health issue, a family
problem, or some injustice?
During such times, it's normal to experience feelings of anxiety, worrying about our future,
the safety of our family, but don't allow such feelings to paralyze you.
Like Gabriella and Onel, keep doing what you can and continue trusting in Jehovah.
Also, continue to trust in our loving Brotherhood.
Our brothers and sisters are true friends who are ready to show love in our time of distress.
They will quickly come to our aid by providing practical assistance and relief provisions.
They will help us rebuild our home, rebuild our life.
They will build us up, stabilize us with words of encouragement.
When we put our complete trust in Jehovah and his promises, we received the best protection
possible.
Note what the Psalmist wrote at Psalm 91 verses 1 and 2.
Psalm 91, 1 and 2.
Is anyone dwelling in the secret place of the Most High will lodge under the shadow of
the Almighty?
I will say to Jehovah, you are my refuge and my stronghold, my God in whom I trust.
What a beautiful reminder of protection from Jehovah.
But what is the secret place of the Most High?
Well, it's a figurative place of spiritual security and protection.
Those who dwell or lodge with God as his personal guests and remain there are safe from anything
or anyone that threatens their faith and their love for God.
We can be sure that Jehovah will never abandon those who trust in him, not now, not ever.
As you watch the following video, envision the secure future that lies ahead when we will
enjoy complete security.
Do you long for a home of your own?
Jehovah promised the returning exiles that they would build and enjoy comfortable dwellings.
Jehovah likewise cares for us whether we lose our home or we are taken from it.
Above all, true worship provides spiritual security that is found nowhere else.
The spiritual home we have now reminds us that Jehovah will give us a physical place to
call home in the new world.
They will build houses and live in them.
What a beautiful video.
It helps us imagine what we will experience in the near future when all of God's promises
become a reality on a paradise earth.
And we truly are safe, cared for in every way, physically, spiritually and emotionally.
Would you like to read another comforting promise from Jehovah?
It's found in Isaiah, chapter 65, and verse 23.
And there it says, they will not toil for nothing nor will they bear children for distress,
because they are the offspring made up of those blessed by Jehovah and their descendants
with them.
This must have brought great comfort to the Jews and how comforting it is for us today.
In the new world, all families will experience Jehovah's blessing and enjoy the results
of their hard work.
In the meantime, if you have lost your home or possessions or if you experienced loss
in the future, keep focusing on Jehovah's good promises.
Strong faith can help you to weather any storm, literal or figurative.
Trust that Jehovah will hear and respond to your needs, even anticipating them.
He promises to open his hand and satisfy the proper desire of every living thing.
That promise includes you and your family.
Continue to take delight in all of God's promises, knowing that not one word out of all the
good promises that Jehovah your God has spoken to you has failed.
They will all come true for you.
Brother Leonard Myers, a helper to the writing committee, will now present the next talk
of this symposium.
Take delight in God's promises of peace, the wolf and the lamb will feed together.